Add docs for jit + invite enabled settings (#2806)
langchain-ai/docs: src/langsmith/jit-invite-sso.mdx

---
title: Manage user access in SSO organizations
sidebarTitle: User access in SSO organizations
---

LangSmith provides flexible controls for managing how users join your [organization](/langsmith/administration-overview#organizations) when using [Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication](/langsmith/authentication-methods). You can independently enable or disable both Just-In-Time (JIT) provisioning and user invites to match your organization's security and onboarding requirements.

When SSO is enabled, you have two independent settings: [JIT provisioning](#jit-provisioning) automatically adds users when they sign in via SSO, while [invites](#invites) allow administrators to invite users manually before they can access the organization. [Configure these settings](#configuration-scenarios) in any combination to control your user onboarding workflow.

> 

Author: Nice, adding the page description sentence!

You can control the following two settings independently to manage how users join your organization.

### JIT provisioning

The `jit_provisioning_enabled` setting controls automatic user provisioning. When enabled, users who authenticate via your SSO provider are automatically added to your [organization](/langsmith/administration-overview#organizations) and assigned to default [workspaces](/langsmith/administration-overview#workspaces) with a default [role](/langsmith/rbac). When disabled, users must be explicitly invited or added via SCIM before they can access the organization.

### Invites

The `invites_enabled` setting controls manual user invitations. When enabled, [organization administrators](/langsmith/administration-overview#organization-roles) can send invitations to users before they sign in. Invited users can claim their invite when signing in via SSO. When disabled, manual invitations are not allowed and users can only join via JIT provisioning or [SCIM](#scim-integration).

### Update settings

You can update these settings in the LangSmith UI or with the LangSmith API:

<Tabs>
<Tab title="UI" icon="layout">

In the [LangSmith UI](https://smith.langchain.com):

> 

Reviewer: 1. In the upcoming settings view, this will be Settings > Organizations > Access and Security > General

<img width="812" height="498" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0f1a566c-ca4d-4dc5-a441-e41b04a5b746" />

2. In the current settings view, this is Settings > Members and roles > General

<img width="823" height="430" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7912dcc8-4516-4def-943b-13ae80acdd9a" />

1. Navigate to **Settings** → **Organization** → **Access and Security** → **General**.
1. Toggle **Enable JIT provisioning** and **Allow invites** as needed.

> 1. Configure SSO default workspaces and roles in **Settings** → **Organization** → **SSO Configuration**.

Author: Really good idea!

- The environment variable `SELF_HOSTED_JIT_PROVISIONING_ENABLED` can globally override the JIT provisioning setting. When set to `false`, JIT provisioning is disabled for all organizations regardless of their individual settings.
- For additional self-hosted user management customizations, refer to [Customize user management](/langsmith/self-host-user-management).
</Note>

## How user access works

When a user attempts to sign in via SSO, LangSmith follows this decision flow:

1. User authenticates with SSO provider.
1. LangSmith checks if user already has organization access:
    ```
    ├─ YES → User is signed in
    └─ NO → Continue to step 3
    ```
1. Check if invites are enabled **and** a pending invite exists:
    ```
   ├─ YES → Claim the invite (use invite's workspace/role configuration)
   └─ NO → Continue to step 4
    ```
1. Check if JIT provisioning is enabled:
    ```
   ├─ YES → Automatically provision user with default SSO workspaces/role
   └─ NO → Deny access (user must be added via SCIM or by administrator)
    ```

<Note>

> When both JIT provisioning and invites are enabled, **invites take precedence**. If a user has a pending invitation, they will be added with the invite's workspace and role configuration, not the default SSO settings.

Reviewer: would shorten to "invites's contents" or something else - it's not quite a "workspace and role configuration," it's the workspace(s) and role(s) they were invited with

</Note>

## Configuration scenarios

### Open access (both enabled)

**Configuration:**
- ✓ JIT Provisioning enabled
- ✓ Invites enabled

**Behavior:**
- Users can sign in immediately via SSO and are auto-provisioned.
- Admins can send invites to assign specific roles or workspaces.
- Invited users get the invite configuration; non-invited users get default SSO configuration.

**Example:**
```
User alex@company.com signs in via SSO:
  - No invite exists → Added to default workspaces with Viewer role

User billy@company.com signs in via SSO:

>   - Invite exists for Editor role in "Production" workspace → Gets Editor role (invite takes precedence)

Reviewer 2: For parallel construction:
```suggestion
  - Invite exists for Editor role in "Production" workspace → Added only to "Production" workspace with Editor role (invite takes precedence)
```
